---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Making of College Courses
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-05-11
labels:
  - Character
  - Software Engineering
  - College
---

# The Making of a College Course



#### A little background
The immediate years following high school were a mess. First was a full summer and fall semester at LCC (pursuing a degree in Automotive Engineering). This was followed by a third of a spring semester where, in my infinite wisdom, I dropped out to pursue my dream of delivering pizza. After a few years of Hedonism, my dad convinced me to take some IT courses and start working as a computer technician on Pearl Harbor and then Camp Smith. The move from Pizza Delivery to IT showed me that through education, skill development, and heavy work ethic, that I could do more with myself than working just to work and never moving on from where I was. Once I was a technician, the growth didn't stop, I picked up a few more certifications, got promoted to senior technician then to tech lead, and built many working relationships with other people in my field.<br><br>
 
 It's with this background that I decided to return to University to pursue a degree for Computer Science and all of the growth and character development that came with it. This was never meant to be a simple resume checkoff or mindless pursuit, and my personal saving and investment put towards this degree ensures that. It was due to this reprieve from schooling, pursuit of job specialization, and personal investment that I developed certain criteria for great college courses and have little tolerance for professors (and students) who fail to meet them.<br><br><br>



#### University Culture of Education
College courses on surface are usually quite straightforward. The syllabus tells you what you need to do to earn an A, that plays out over a couple of months, then you get your grade. But I feel there's alot that isn't conveyed to the student on what they should be expecting from the course and, by extension, college and their degree. In addition to direct education of specific, niche topics (chemistry, calculus, creative writing) that have very little carryover into the 'real world' there are soft skills being to be developed and, hopefully, an undercurrent of personal growth and development. <br><br>
I'll talk a bit about the first type since it's the most directly communicated to students (and also the reason for most students future disenchantment with education). Using Software Engineering(ICS314) as an example, students are told to expect alot of javascript, IDE's, and various software paraphernalia throughout the course. This knowledge is the most easily imparted because of how direct it is. You're can be told to follow a video checklist on some site and then consider yourself educated on the topic.  Only to enter the workforce and realize nothing you do is related to React, Meteor, or Javascript (and this is a computer science class for a computer science degree, let alone a foreign literature course to meet a GE). Frustration abounds in students who enter into debt, and spend years toiling towards a degree, only to find out that the direct knowledge they've received is worthless compared to the OJT they'll receive at work. Or worse yet, leave them with a degree that gives them little to no hiring prospects in their field, as if the degree was supposed to be a kind of employment guarantee. These students feel cheated because they failed to realize the true importance of these classes.<br><br>
The secondary education can be described as soft skills. Continuing with the usage of Software Engineering as an example, two major components of the coursework were weekly exams (called WOD's) and weekly partner mini-projects. The partner projects were a little more forward in teaching students the minutia of working in pairs. Mutual education, communication, how your partner will always slow you down because they aren't as great as you are, and all of the other consequences of working with someone else in a field you're also learning. But for me the real meat of the class were the WOD's. At breakneck speed you were introduced to a topic (see direct knowledge above) and within a week or so you had to have an understanding of it that you could be examined on it. The goal wasn't necessarily to teach you javascript or React, but to teach you how to learn these things and to expose you to your innate capacity of learning things quickly and dealing with that weekly stress exposure associated with the exam. These secondary skills aren't necessarily obvious to students but they're baked into the structure of the course by Professor's who understand the purpose of a college education. <br><br>
The final teaching isn't necessarily one that can be created by the professor or sought after by the student. It's one that's created by the Campus as a whole. Being surrounded by fellow students who are seeking the same growth as you are, and having direct access to Professors who have been professing for decades, creates a learning environment that can't be consistently found out in the world. I'd compare it to the difference in conversations you'd expect to have a bar vs a coffee shop. One of them you expect to leave better. Libraries become hubs for people to bump into each other looking for the same book, cafeterias become littered with open textbooks that get pieces of Orange Chicken dropped onto them, and the phrase 'after hours' ceases because all hours become 'on hours'. It's an environment that, when immersed in for a few years, can leave a lifelong impact on a students desire for growth. A good course will encourage students to participate in this culture, whether it's directly through group projects or indirectly by driving students to engage with one another outside the lecture hall.<br><br><br>

### Apotheosis
There have been precious few courses and professors that have been canonized in my personal history. Among them are Chemistry 161 by Michael Reese and Calculus 161 by Jiajia Garcia. As few as the criteria are, I try not to judge my courses until any passions that flame up during the semester have had a chance to cool off and allow me to reflect on both the classes themselves and the wider context they took on within the Universities path to a degree. <br><br>
A final digression: College for me has never really been about the subject of the individual courses. It's mostly been about the secondary skills and the environment they're taught it. Both are under threat from Professors and students. Secondary skills aren't taught from professor's who view their class as a list of assignments to churn through (courses made for online, not all, but many). And University culture by students who view degrees as only being worth as much as their job training potential. Both of these groups actively degrade the value of a degree.
